DEBUGGING.md, before:

# Build Logs

Build logs are in the `hhvm-binary-package-builds/cloud-init-output.log`
CloudWatch log group, and are available via the CloudWatch web UI.

## Listing available logs via CLI

Log stream names are `BUILD_DATE/hhvm-VERSION_DISTRO_EC2-INSTANCE-ID`;

```
$ aws logs describe-log-streams \
>   --log-group-name hhvm-binary-package-builds/cloud-init-output.log \
>   --log-stream-name-prefix 2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22 \
>   --query 'logStreams[*].[logStreamName]' --output text
2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-0441d0e0f080021fd
2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539
2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-0ca36208f86e6a198
```

## Fetching a log via CLI

To fetch an entire log:

```
$ aws logs get-log-events \
>   --log-group-name hhvm-binary-package-builds/cloud-init-output.log \
>   --log-stream-name 2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539 \
>   --output text --query 'events[*].[message]'
```

To fetch the last hundred entries, add:

```
>  --no-start-from-head --limit 100
```

# Docker images for failed builds

Docker images allow you to quickly get a copy of the failed build.


## Listing available images

```
$ aws ecr list-images --repository-name hhvm-failed-builds --query 'imageIds[*].[imageTag]' --output text
2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539
```

## Logging into Elastic Container Registry (ECR)

First, install Docker; then:

```
$ $(aws ecr get-login | sed 's/ -e none / /')
WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.
Login Succeeded
```

## Starting a container (instance) from an image

```
$ IMAGE_NAME=$(aws ecr describe-repositories --repository-name hhvm-failed-builds --query 'repositories[*].repositoryUri' --output text)
$ IMAGE_TAG=2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539 # from above
$ docker run -it --rm ${IMAGE_NAME}:${IMAGE_TAG} /bin/bash -l
```

- `-i`: interactive
- `-t`: use a TTY
- `--rm`: delete container when process (`/bin/bash -l`) exits

## Attaching another terminal to the container

- find the container ID or name from `docker ps`
- `docker exec -it $CONTAINER_NAME_OR_ID /bin/bash -l`

## Debugging debian builds in the container

- Debian builds are created in a directory matching the pattern
`/tmp/hhvmpkg.XXXXXX`
- within this directory, there will be a source directory called
  `hhvm-VERSION` or `hhvm-nightly-VERSION`
- Debian does not build packages directly in the source directory; instead,
  they will be inside the `obj-x86_64-linux-gnu` subdirectory

For example, one build of 2019.08.22 was made in
`/tmp/hhvmpkg.URugWYaQ/hhvm-nightly-2019.08.22/obj-x86_64-linux-gnu`.

Within the build directory:

- if `cmake` completed, you can run `make`
- if `cmake` did not complete, you can run `cmake ..`

Commit message:

Note to increase docker ram limit

DEBUGGING.md, after:

# Build Logs

Build logs are in the `hhvm-binary-package-builds/cloud-init-output.log`
CloudWatch log group, and are available via the CloudWatch web UI.

## Listing available logs via CLI

Log stream names are `BUILD_DATE/hhvm-VERSION_DISTRO_EC2-INSTANCE-ID`;

```
$ aws logs describe-log-streams \
>   --log-group-name hhvm-binary-package-builds/cloud-init-output.log \
>   --log-stream-name-prefix 2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22 \
>   --query 'logStreams[*].[logStreamName]' --output text
2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-0441d0e0f080021fd
2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539
2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-0ca36208f86e6a198
```

## Fetching a log via CLI

To fetch an entire log:

```
$ aws logs get-log-events \
>   --log-group-name hhvm-binary-package-builds/cloud-init-output.log \
>   --log-stream-name 2019/08/22/hhvm-2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539 \
>   --output text --query 'events[*].[message]'
```

To fetch the last hundred entries, add:

```
>  --no-start-from-head --limit 100
```

# Docker images for failed builds

Docker images allow you to quickly get a copy of the failed build.


## Listing available images

```
$ aws ecr list-images --repository-name hhvm-failed-builds --query 'imageIds[*].[imageTag]' --output text
2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539
```

## Logging into Elastic Container Registry (ECR)

First, install Docker; then:

```
$ $(aws ecr get-login | sed 's/ -e none / /')
WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.
Login Succeeded
```

## Starting a container (instance) from an image

First, check the memory limits in your Docker configuration; the default is
2GB, which will be insufficient.

```
$ IMAGE_NAME=$(aws ecr describe-repositories --repository-name hhvm-failed-builds --query 'repositories[*].repositoryUri' --output text)
$ IMAGE_TAG=2019.08.22_debian-8-jessie_i-08a53d39a3c2ae539 # from above
$ docker run -it --rm ${IMAGE_NAME}:${IMAGE_TAG} /bin/bash -l
```

- `-i`: interactive
- `-t`: use a TTY
- `--rm`: delete container when process (`/bin/bash -l`) exits

## Attaching another terminal to the container

- find the container ID or name from `docker ps`
- `docker exec -it $CONTAINER_NAME_OR_ID /bin/bash -l`

## Debugging debian builds in the container

- Debian builds are created in a directory matching the pattern
`/tmp/hhvmpkg.XXXXXX`
- within this directory, there will be a source directory called
  `hhvm-VERSION` or `hhvm-nightly-VERSION`
- Debian does not build packages directly in the source directory; instead,
  they will be inside the `obj-x86_64-linux-gnu` subdirectory

For example, one build of 2019.08.22 was made in
`/tmp/hhvmpkg.URugWYaQ/hhvm-nightly-2019.08.22/obj-x86_64-linux-gnu`.

Within the build directory:

- if `cmake` completed, you can run `make`
- if `cmake` did not complete, you can run `cmake ..`
